.\" The first line of this file must contain the '\"[e][r][t][v] line
.\" to tell man to run the appropriate filter "t" for table.
.\"
.\" $Id: nhlex.new.man,v 1.2 1995-01-26 15:48:51 haley Exp $
.\"
.\"######################################################################
.\"#                                                                    #
.\"#               Copyright (C)  1993                                  #
.\"#        University Corporation for Atmospheric Research             #
.\"#               All Rights Reserved                                  #
.\"#                                                                    #
.\"######################################################################
.\"
.\"     File:		nhlex.new.man
.\"
.\"     Author:		Jeff W. Boote
.\"			National Center for Atmospheric Research
.\"			PO 3000, Boulder, Colorado
.\"
.\"     Date:		Wed Apr 7 10:29:48 MDT 1993
.\"
.\"     Description:	Describes the nhlex.new script and the example programs.
.\"
.TH nhlex.new 1Nhl "Prototype Release" "Nhl Prototype" "NCARG Nhl EXAMPLES"
.SH NAME
.nh
nhlex.new \- NCAR Graphics High Level Utilities Example Programs
.ny
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnhlex.new\fP 
[\fI\-A\fP]
[\fI\-C\fP]
[\fI\-Fortran\fP]
[\fI\-annotation\fP]
[\fI\-contour\fP]
[\fI\-labelbar\fP]
[\fI\-legend\fP]
[\fI\-mapplot\fP]
[\fI\-overlay\fP]
[\fI\-textitem\fP]
[\fI\-tickmark\fP]
[\fI\-title\fP]
[\fI\-xyplot\fP]
[\fI\-list\fP]
[\fI\-clean\fP]
[\fI\-n\fP]
\fIname ...\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I nhlex.new
provides the user with access to several C and Fortran examples
illustrating the use of the NCAR Graphics HLUs (High Level Utilities).
\fInhlex.new\fP copies the source code for the specified
example(s) into the current directory and then compiles, links, and
executes the example.  Depending on the example, the output may be
sent to an NCGM (NCAR Graphics Metafile) file and/or displayed to an X
window on your screen.  You must be running X and have your DISPLAY
environment set correctly in order for the X window examples to
execute properly.
.sp
If the requested example creates an NCGM file, it will have the same
name as the example, suffixed with ".ncgm". An option allows you to
request that only the source code be copied to your directory, without
compiling or running the example.  Another option
allows you to request that only the NCGM file be left in your
directory and that all other files created by \fBnhlex.new\fP be deleted.
The argument \fIname\fP may be selected from the lists that appear
below.
.sp
Since the HLU library is available on Suns and SGIs only, these
examples will only execute on those machines.  In the future, the HLUs
and their examples will be ported to other systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fI-A\fP " " ""
Generate all available examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or \fI-list\fP option is
included on the command line, in which case the behavior is different
(see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP below).
.sp
.IP \fI-C\fP " " ""
Generate all C examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or \fI-list\fP option is
included on the command line, in which case the behavior is different
(see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP below).
.sp
.IP \fI-Fortran\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or \fI-list\fP
option is included on the command line, in which case the behavior is
different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP below).
.sp
.IP \fI-annotation\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C Annotation examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-contour\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C Contour examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-labelbar\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C Labelbar examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-legend\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C Legend examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-mapplot\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C MapPlot examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-overlay\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C Overlay examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-textitem\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C TextItem examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-tickmark\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C TickMark examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-title\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C Title examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-xyplot\fP " " ""
Generate all Fortran and C XYPlot examples, unless the \fI-n\fP or
\fI-list\fP option is included on the command line, in which case the
behavior is different (see explanation of \fI-n\fP and \fI-list\fP
below).
.sp
.IP \fI-list\fP " " ""
Specifies that the names of the selected examples should be echoed to the
screen instead of being copied or generated.  This option must be used
with one of the other options that selects a particular
subset of examples.  For example, if you want to see a list of all the
available examples, then use \fI-list\fP in conjuction with the \fI-A\fP
option.  If you want to see a list of all the Contour examples, then
use \fI-list\fP with the \fI-contour\fP option (and so on).
.sp
.IP \fI-clean\fP " " ""
Remove everything but the ".ncgm" file.
.sp
.IP \fI-n\fP " " ""
Specifies that the example should just be copied, and not
linked or executed.
.sp
.IP \fIname(s)\fP " " ""
Name(s) of example programs to generate.
.SH "EXAMPLES AVAILABLE"
Please notice that the C examples end with the letter 'c' and the
Fortran examples end with the letter 'f'.
.IP xy01c,xy01f 1i
Demonstrates how to display an XyPlot to an X Window, and then
copy it to a meta file.
.IP xy02c 1i
Demonstrates how to incorporate the HLU library with a GUI.
It uses an X/Motif interface, and also allows the user to copy frames from
the X Window to a meta file.
.IP xy03c 1i
Shows how to interactively retrieve data values from a plot by pointing
and clicking on the plot.
.IP ti01c,ti01f 1i
Shows how to use the TextItem object of the HLU library.
.IP cn01c,cn01f 1i
Demonstrates how to use HLU objects with low level NCAR Graphics
library calls. 
.IP cn02c,cn02f 1i
Demonstrates basic features of the Contour object.
.IP cn03c,cn03f 1i
Demonstrates basic features of the Contour object.  The first
frame emulates the contour plot drawn in nhl06 using low-level NCARG calls.
.IP cn04c,cn04f 1i
Emulates the output of the ncargex example "cpex02".
.IP mp01c,mp01f 1i
Demonstrates basic MapPlot capabilities.
.IP mp02c,mp02f 1i
Demonstrates individual control of MapPlot areas.
.IP mp03c,mp03f 1i
Demonstrates MapPlot masking; loosely emulates the ncargex example "colcon".
.IP an01c,an01f 1i
Illustrates the use of Annotation objects.
.SH SEE ALSO
ncargex(1NCARG),  ncargcex(1NCARG)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1993, 1994, 1995 University Corporation
for Atmospheric Research
.br
All Rights Reserved
