.\" The first line of this file must contain the '\"[e][r][t][v] line
.\" to tell man to run the appropriate filter "t" for table.
.\"
.\"	$Id: nhlex.man,v 1.6 1995-01-17 23:20:38 haley Exp $
.\"
.\"######################################################################
.\"#									#
.\"#			   Copyright (C)  1993				#
.\"#		University Corporation for Atmospheric Research		#
.\"#			   All Rights Reserved				#
.\"#                                                                    #
.\"######################################################################
.\"
.\"     File:		nhlex.man.sed
.\"
.\"     Author:		Jeff W. Boote
.\"			National Center for Atmospheric Research
.\"			PO 3000, Boulder, Colorado
.\"
.\"     Date:		Wed Apr 7 10:29:48 MDT 1993
.\"
.\"     Description:	Describes the nhlex script and the example programs.
.\"
.TH nhlex 1Nhl "Prototype Release" "Nhl Prototype" "NCARG Nhl EXAMPLES"
.SH NAME
.nh
nhlex \- NCAR Graphics High Level Utilities Example Programs
.ny
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnhlex\fP 
[\fI\-A\fP]
[\fI\-clean\fP]
[\fI\-n\fP]
\fIname ...\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I nhlex
provides the user with access to several C and Fortran examples
illustrating the use of the NCAR Graphics HLUs (High Level Utilities).
\fInhlex\fP copies the source code for the specified
example(s) into the current directory and then compiles, links, and
executes the example.  Depending on the example, the output may be
sent to an NCGM (NCAR Graphics Metafile) file and/or displayed to an X
window on your screen.  You must be running X and have your DISPLAY
environment set correctly in order for the X window examples to
execute properly.
.sp
If the requested example creates an NCGM file, it will have the same
name as the example, suffixed with ".ncgm". An option allows you to
request that only the source code be copied to your directory, without
copying the executable or executing the example.  Another option
allows you to request that only the NCGM file be left in your
directory and that all other files created by \fBnhlex\fP be deleted.
The argument \fIname\fP may be selected from the lists that appear
below.
.sp
Since the HLU library is available on Suns and SGIs only, these
examples will only execute on those machines.  In the future, the HLUs
and their examples will be ported to other systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-A\fP" 1i
Copy and execute all available examples.
.IP \-\fIclean\fP 1i
Remove everything but the ".ncgm" file.
.IP \-\fIn\fP 1i
Specifies that the example should just be copied over, and not
linked or executed.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
List of example programs to retrieve.
.SH "EXAMPLES AVAILABLE"
Please notice that the Fortran examples are the ones with the letter 'f'
before the example number.
.IP nhl01,nhlf01 1i
Demonstrates how to display an XyPlot to an X Window, and then
copy it to a meta file.
.IP nhl02 1i
Demonstrates how to incorporate the HLU library with a GUI.
It uses an X/Motif interface, and also allows the user to copy frames from
the X Window to a meta file.
.IP nhl03 1i
Shows how to interactively retrieve data values from a plot by pointing
and clicking on the plot.
.IP nhl05,nhlf05 1i
Shows how to use the TextItem object of the HLU library.
.IP nhl06,nhlf06 1i
Demonstrates how to use HLU objects with low level NCAR Graphics
library calls. 
.IP nhl07,nhlf07 1i
Demonstrates basic features of the Contour object.
.IP nhl08,nhlf08 1i
Demonstrates basic features of the Contour object.  The first
frame emulates the contour plot drawn in nhl06 using low-level NCARG calls.
.IP nhl09,nhlf09 1i
Emulates the output of the ncargex example "cpex02".
.IP nhl10,nhlf10 1i
Demonstrates basic MapPlot capabilities.
.IP nhl11,nhlf11 1i
Demonstrates individual control of MapPlot areas.
.IP nhl12,nhlf12 1i
Demonstrates MapPlot masking; loosely emulates the ncargex example "colcon".
.IP nhl13,nhlf13 1i
Illustrates the use of Annotation objects.
.SH SEE ALSO
ncargex(1NCARG),  ncargcex(1NCARG)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1993, 1994, 1995 University Corporation
for Atmospheric Research
.br
All Rights Reserved
